Adding a Pulumi 3.0 migration guide (#5633)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/get-started/install/migrating-3.0.md

---

> title: Migrating to Pulumi 3.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Upgrading to Pulumi 3.0
```

> meta_desc: This page provides instructions for migrating to Pulumi 3.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meta_desc: This page provides instructions for upgrading to Pulumi 3.0
```

no_on_this_page: true
---

> ## Migrating to 3.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrading to Pulumi 3.0
```

> Upgrading to 3.0 is simple. First, you will [install the 3.0 CLI]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install" >}}). Then, update each of your Pulumi programs to utilize the new SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi 3.0 is currently in beta. If you'd like to try the beta and provide feedback, it's simple to upgrade. First, [install the 3.0 CLI]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install" >}}). Then, update each of your Pulumi programs to utilize the new SDK.
```

> ## Changes to the CLI Behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## CLI behavior changes in Pulumi 3.0
```

Do we have a standard style guide/point of view on American vs. British spellings?

Author: American - I just speak the correct version of English ;) J/k!

> Previously, when using the `--stack` option on CLI commands, Pulumi would inconsistenty set that stack as the current stack. This behaviour has now standardised and will *NOT* set the stack as the current stack. This affects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, when using the `--stack` option on CLI commands, Pulumi would inconsistently set that stack as the current stack. In Pulumi 3.0, this behavior has now standardized and will *NOT* set the stack as the current stack. This affects the following commands:
```

* `pulumi logs`
* `pulumi preview`
* `pulumi refresh`
* `pulumi stack *`
* `pulumi state`
* `pulumi up`
* `pulumi watch`

## Update Your Pulumi Programs

{{< chooser language "javascript,typescript,python,go,csharp" >}}

{{% choosable language "javascript,typescript" %}}

### Update Dependencies

```bash
npm install @pulumi/pulumi@^3.0.0
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

### Update Dependencies

Modify your `requirements.txt` file to update the Pulumi SDK and related providers as below:

```
pulumi>=3.0.0,<4.0.0
pulumi-aws>=4.0.0,<5.0.0
```

Then run `pip install`:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

{{% /choosable %}}
{{% choosable language go %}}

### Update Dependencies

In `go.mod`, you can depend on the Pulumi SDK and related providers as below:

```
require (
    github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3 v3.0.0
    github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/sdk/v4/go/aws v3.0.0
)
```

Then run `go mod download`

{{% /choosable %}}
{{% choosable language csharp %}}

### Update Dependencies

Update your package reference to the latest version of the SDK:

```csharp
<PackageReference Include="Pulumi" Version="3.*" />
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> ## Automation API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Automation API changes in Pulumi 3.0
```

> The Pulumi 3.0 launch, moves the "Automation API" out of preview to be GA! This means, we have standardized the namespace requirements for the "Automation API". You can update your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pulumi 3.0 beta includes the final preview of the Automation API. That preview standardizes the namespace requirements for Automation API. You can update your
```

program to use the following namespaces

{{< chooser language "javascript,typescript,python,go,csharp" >}}

{{% choosable language "javascript,typescript" %}}

```javascript
// before
import as automation from "@pulumi/pulumi/automation";

//after

> import as automation from "@pulumi/pulumi/x/automation";

Reviewer: I think these are backwards?

Author: great catch!

```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language "python" %}}

```python
#before
from pulumi.x import automation as auto

#after
from pulumi import automation as auto
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language "go" %}}

```go
//before
import (
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/pulumi"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/x/auto"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/x/auto/optdestroy"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v2/go/x/auto/optup"
)

//after
import (
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/pulumi"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/auto"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/auto/optdestroy"
	"github.com/pulumi/pulumi/sdk/v3/go/auto/optup"
)
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language "csharp" %}}

```csharp
using System;
using System.IO;
using System.Linq;
using System.Reflection;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Pulumi.Automation;

> ```

Reviewer: Was there a before here or did C# never use the old namespace?

Author: The DotNet stuff is only new and didn't follow the old X namespace work

{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

> ## Remaining on Pulumi 3.0
> 
> We recommend switching to Pulumi 3.0 if possible. We will only push critical security and bug fixes into the `3.x` branch. Other fixes, feature enhancements, and
> new functionality will not be supported in the `3.x` branch. In addition, provider updates will only be built against Pulumi 3.0.
> 
> If you wish to remain on the `3.x` CLI, you can continue to download the CLI by referring to [the manual installation instructions]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install#manual-installation" >}}) and [choosing a specific version]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install/versions" >}}).
> 
> `pulumi new` will attempt to use the latest versions of the templates, which pull in the `3.0` SDK. You can continue to use the `2.x` templates by running `pulumi new https://github.com/pulumi/templates/tree/2.x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When you should upgrade to Pulumi 3.0

Pulumi 3.0 is currently in beta and not recommended for existing production workloads. Once it is made generally available (GA), we will recommend switching to Pulumi 3.0 in the docs and in the CLI via the normal upgrade prompts. 

`pulumi new` uses the latest versions of the templates, which pull in the `3.0` SDK. You can continue to use the `2.x` templates by running `pulumi new https://github.com/pulumi/templates/tree/2.x`.
```
